Bee pollination is important for food supply and provides huge economic benefit, but bee populations are facing challenges from parasites, pesticide exposure, habitat loss and climate change. 
Together, these make bee health a crucial issue.

Within the gut of bees, there is a diverse microbial community impacting host health. 
There are core bacteria that present in almost all individuals. 
and diverse non-core bacteria, fungi and viruses. 
Besides, bee microbiome also provides materials of eDNA, which indicates interactions between bees and other organisms.

This microbiome mediates multiple biological processes including food digestion, parasite defence and chemical detoxification. 

To explore diversity of bee microbiome, amplicon sequencing is vastly used. 
It amplifies species-specific region from DNA sample using well-designed PCR primers and illustrates taxon composition of microbiome.

However, amplicon sequencing only provides limited understanding in bee microbiome diversity. 
Since different barcodes are used for taxonomic clades, amplicon sequencing only reveals diversity within certain clade, while bee gut microbail community is diversified and composed of multi-kingdom species.
Besides, amplicon sequencing provides no information on gene content. 
Function potentiality need to be inferred from pre-sequenced genomes. 
However, bee bacterial symbionts are highly diversified at strain level and different strains often variant in gene repertoires and metabolic functions. 
(Strains of Gilliamella apicola variant in metabolizing mannose, xylose, arabinose, and rhamnose, all of which are toxic to bees)
(Strains of lactobacilli and bifidobacteria are highly variant in carbohydrate metabolism)

Shotgun metagenomics provides a solution to overcome these draw backs. 
It captures DNA fragments unselectively, providing information on multi-kingdom taxa and gene content. 

However, utilization of shotgun metagenomics is hindered by challenges in data analysis. 
The goal of metagenomics is typically to provide a taxonomic and functional profile of the microbiome. 
Generally, one of the first steps of metagenomic data analysis is assembling short reads into informative long contigs, which enable accurate taxonomic/functional annotation. 
But metagenome assembly is a complex and computationally intensive task, compromised by fragmental assembly, chimaeras and high false negative rate caused by unassembled reads. 
Short reads can also be processed directly for annotation, but the output might be compromised in terms of accuracy due to limited mappability.

A remaining challenge is high cost of shotgun metagenomics. 
Deep sequencing is expensive. 
Assume there are 100 samples to be sequenced and from per sample, we want at least 12 Gbp metagenomic data, or 40k 16S reads. 
The former would take about 20k pounds, while the latter is 2k pounds. 

Here, I aimed to (1) develop a pipeline combining assembly-dependent and -independent methods for metagenomic profiling and (2) optimize sequencing depth to define a compromise for sequencing cost and requirement for reliable taxonomic/functional diversity analysis.

To address challenges of metagenomic data analysis, I developed such an integrated pipeline. 
It is composed of five modules indicated by blue boxes. 
After quality control and host removing, assembly-dependent taxon profiling is conducted. 
To address high negative rate of assembly-dependent search, a reference database of genomes from species present in the assembly is constructed and used for filtering non-host reads. 
Reads not recruited by the reference database are subjected to assembly-free taxonomic search. 
Finally, function annotation is conducted. 

The integrated pipeline was used to analyze seven deep sequenced metagenomic datasets: three from honey bees, three from bumble bees and one from flower washes. 

Although Although samples are different in proportion of host contamination, diverse communities composed of multiple taxonomic clades were identified. 

Specifically, core bacterial symbionts of bees were identified. In this heatmap, from top to bottom, 

Besides, other species common in pollination system were identified. 